Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
I'm talking with David Bryant, the
vice president of platform engineering
at Mozilla is responsible for
the development and the delivery
of that core underlying technology
platform for Firefox. How are
you, sir? I am great
Scott. Thanks for taking the
time to talk to me
today and have me on
the show. Oh, it's my
pleasure. And you haven't been
at Mozilla for too long.
Have, you know, just a
couple of weeks. Over two
years, I had my two
year anniversary on March the
16th, so still relative newcomer
to Mozilla, but I'm an
old guy. Otherwise I graduated
from graduate school in Scott,
my first job at bell
laboratories in 1979. So been
around for awhile. Yeah. So
you were at bell labs
during kind of those formative
years of, of Unix. I
was, I was a tangent
tangentially part of it. I
was part of the facility
in Columbus, Ohio, our largest
branch labs, and we were
taking Unix as it was
coming out of research in
those days and building systems
to let at and T
own and operate, monitor and
manage the long distance network.
So we were building deployed
commercial, although we didn't sell
them a Unix based systems
on deck hardware, mostly in
1979 in the early days
of Unix. And I was
there through a lot of
that growth of Unix into
what we have today. That's
going to be really exciting
because of the historical context
that you have. And I
don't mean to separate us
generationally, but I think that
there's a new generation of
20 somethings coming up and
I'm a 40 something. And
I'm going to presume that
you're on the high end
of forties. Yeah, that'd be
add another 20 and you're
getting close. Right? So there
are the people that I
interact with, you know, the
people making the new web,
the 20 somethings, the, the
people for whom JavaScript is
the metal and I interact
with them. And I'm starting
to feel like the old
person only in the context
of, I have 25 years
of historical context. And now
you have 40 years of
historical context that goes back
even, you know, even further.
What does that, what does
that feel like when you
hear about people talking about
Oh, containers and virtualization and
all these kinds of things
that were concepts in the
seventies and eighties? Well, I,
I actually, it, I should
also mention that I'm an
electrical engineer, not a computer
scientist. So I, what attracted
me to computing was building
computers and getting things to
work kind of at the
metal level. Anyway. So in
my first many years of
working, I was in the
lab with the metal and
programming it. And, and I
definitely liked that. And, and
I've seen a number of
those many generations come and
go in computing to the
point where I also spend
a fair amount amount of
time these days as a
participant in the maker movement.
And I love the idea
that the computers I was
programming on in 1979 were
the size of a refrigerator
cost $800,000. And I can
basically do that same kind
of programming today on a
raspberry PI that costs $10
and carried in my pocket.
So a lot of those
programming concepts, a lot of
getting at the metal, talking
to people about interrupts and
other sorts of electrical engineering,
things are back again, and
an important part of computing
for a lot more people
than we're doing it. And
when I started many years
ago, so for me, this
is, this is a great
sort of rebirth. It does
feel like I'm a technological
perspective, not mine my own,
but yeah, It does, but
it also seems like we're
standing on the shoulders of
giants in not only from
a layers, you know, from
a layers of abstraction perspective.
I'm looking to my right
here, where I have an
ADA fruit feather, which is
a tiny Arduino with a
three-line OLED screen, plugged into
a tiny thing. It's the
size of my pinky. And
right now it's connected via
wifi and using, you know,
the web web technologies to
serialize and de serialize JavaScript
and send it up to
the web. And that's a
refrigerator and it's 45 years
of computing history all there.
And we take it for
granted and I'm like, Oh,
it's taking a minute to
compile. Ah, so frustrating. Yeah.
And you can take that
technology into an elementary school
and, and get those folks,
the kids at that age
started on that cycle, which
was not something we had
any idea we could do
40 years ago. So Yeah.
So one of the things
I'm excited to talk to
you about, because you're you're,
as you said, you're genetically
an electrical engineer in the
idea That you worked on
the metal, Every register mattered
where every bit and every
bite mattered and now JavaScript
is the new is the
new metal. Is that, is
that a fair statement? Waltz
The JavaScript it's a, yeah,
I think so. I mean,
I understand the, the ongoing
conversation about JavaScript and thinking
about adding it as an
assembler language. And I know
we're going to talk about
that topically today. I think
JavaScript is, you know, right
next to the metal, it's
a programming language that lets
you think, or have the
sense that you're programming at
the metal. And yet in
some ways it's not, it's
a, you know, a very
powerful, capable, rich programming language
far removed from the metal.
If you compare it to
assembler language is that I
was programming in early in
my career. So it's sort
of a, you know, the,
the question is, is JavaScript
a similar language in the
answer's kind of yes and
no, at the same time,
the, the virtual machine That
it kind of runs it
and the other, the metal,
the false metal, like the
web is the metal in
that. Right. That's the right.
The, the virtual computer is
the web browser generally. So
one of the ways we
talk about web assembly for
example, is to say that
it puts a virtual CPU
inside your web browser, inside
every web browser. Okay. So
let's, let's introduce it. Let's
introduce this concept of, of
web WebAssembly. There've been lots
of examples of people building
stuff or transpiling, or trying
to get things that you
wouldn't have imagined possible running
in the browser. Like I
remember seeing a Commodore 64
emulator written in JavaScript, but
it was written an idiot
JavaScript. What is it Different
from that versus the formality
that is web based? Yeah.
Well, and there's a little
bit of a story that
goes along with answering that
question. So you're right. It's
possible to take JavaScript and
think and act and use
it as if you were
programming a low level language
and talking to the metal.
And in fact, that concept
gave rise to something that
was a precursor to WebAssembly
ASM dot JS. And that
was in fact, the idea
let's find a strict subset
of JavaScript, statically typed other
qualities that would allow us
to treat it as an
assembler language and, and not
necessarily thinking that humans were
going to program in it,
but it could be a
very efficient target for compilers
such that program's written in
other programming languages could be
compiled down to ASM dot
JS much as in the
old days, you compiled your
C code down to an
assembler and then compiled assembler
down to executable. And so
as M dot JS was
really the proof that this
was a useful idea. And
at the time, the reason
for doing it was performance.
The idea was that we
wanted to try and provide
programmers, delivering experiences on the
web with performance, much closer
to native. And so as
I'm dot JS was this
precursor that was successful and
is in fairly widespread use
on the web today in
places where people need greater
degrees of computational efficiency and
are willing to accept that
the trade offs that they
have to make in terms
of working in programming with
ASM dot JS. So, so
based on the success of
ASM dot JS and the
benefits from a performance perspective,
it really allowed the folks
involved to move on to
web assembler WebAssembly, which is
taking that one logical step
further. And now we're talking
about delivering essentially a binary
machine language that can be
executed by a virtual machine
inside your web browser. So,
so WebAssembly gives us that
ability to use the web
as a runtime for programs
and programming languages beyond what
people historically think of as
being part of the web.
Okay. So let me see
if I can unpack this
and paraphrase and you can
tell me if I got
it right. Cause I think
the audience is doing the
same thing, right? So, so
ASM dot JS, ASM dot
JS was a, a subset
of JavaScript that we know
out. So it's like, here's
a subset of JS. We'll
only use this little bit
of JavaScript and we'll, we
can optimize the heck out
of it. We can, you
know, have basic types. And
then the JavaScript engine will
execute it as if it's
doing anything else, but the
JavaScript engine could optimize itself
and say, Oh, I see
that we're doing ASM JS.
I'll make that even easier.
And then I could go
and compile things to ASM
JS. I could compile C
plus plus to ASM JS,
which then gets jaded and
run through JavaScript as JavaScript
because it is in fact
That's right. That's right. And
I think, you know, for
again, maybe to, to make
this a little more general,
you know, JavaScript is a
language that's an intended for
humans to program, right? So
it's a very, you know,
it's an easy read. It,
it looks like a programming
language. You know, the intent
is that humans are writing
that code. They're going to
maintain and debug the code.
So it's written in text
like a book or a
paragraph, like most traditional programming
languages. And that's great for
humans, but it leaves extra
work for the browser. The
browser has to take that
narrative prosaic, Java script and,
and parse it and turn
it into a form that's
much more amenable to what
the computer is needing in
order to actually execute it.
And so that process takes
time. It takes computer cycles.
JavaScript is delivered in the
web page when the browser
goes to the page. And
so that downloading parsing, preparing
to execute all of the
processing of that programming language
is work that, that the
browser has to do. And
so we are, we're making
it easier for people and
a little bit harder, a
little more work involved for
the browsers and that that's
not a problem really, except
for it's perceptible to end
users. The time it takes
for a larger, more sophisticated
applications with more JavaScript to
download and then be parsed
and made, ready to execute
is all time that they
use are standing there waiting
for their web page or
their web application to come
up and load. And so
as I'm digests was really
the first step and sort
of going beyond that traditional
and well-intended very successful model
for JavaScript as a programming
language. Okay. All right. So,
and then there was a
time in the last couple
of years where different browsers
treated as in JS differently,
Firefox would compile it to
machine code and cash it.
If it saw you loading
it again, and there were
experimental flags and edge to
do some validation some ahead
of time, but other browsers
chose to do nothing like
Safari. He said, Oh, it's
JavaScript. I won't think about
ASM JS any differently. You're
saying now that WebAssembly, which
is the next generation or
the, the declaration. That it's
a good idea. And let's
do it right this time
is that it's a binary
format, but it's not byte
code. Yeah. It's a binary
format. That is, you know,
so one of the great
things about web assembly is
it's designed to be delivered
as a very efficient, layered
bytecode representation or byte representation,
binary representation. So it saves,
yeah. It saves the browser,
all the effort of parsing
the JavaScript. And it also
saves the user. The time
spent downloading a far less
efficient representation in the text
form of JavaScript compared to
the binary form of WebAssembly.
Okay. So from a computer
science perspective, if I understand
this correctly, then you know,
there's the parsers and the
lectures and the compilers, and
there's that whole process. The
WebAssembly, it's a binary encoding
of that AST, that abstract
syntax tree. And the parser
did that work ahead of
time so that my mom
and dad don't have to
worry about it. Yeah. And
their cycles are not wasted
parsing text again. Yeah. All
the humans that are going
to look at your website
aren't enduring time spent while
that happens, it happens beforehand.
And, and so they don't
have to endure it. But
yeah, so it's a binary
representation. That's an interesting, it
brings up interesting questions around
the responsibility of these dumb
terminals that we have. Like
I'm sitting in front of
a dump terminal right now,
which just happens to have
16 gigs of Ram and
I've accelerated video card and
eight processors. But sometimes I
feel like the refrigerators that
are over at the cloud
provider are just shipping strings
to me. Right. And I'm
waiting for those strings. And
then I have, I have
the responsibility of chewing them
up. We're kind of shifting
responsibility back and forth. This
is a, it seems like
web assemblies, a recognition that,
Hey, you know, that's kind
of a powerful pocket supercomputer
you have there, maybe it
should do some work. And
we'll split the work up
between the developer, the cloud
provider and the, the browser
itself, so that everyone's doing
appropriate. Right. And we'll do
it in a way that
puts a more powerful set
of tools in the hands
of the developers. So depending
on what they're trying to
do and the kind of
experience they're trying to deliver,
we give them more ways
to actually make that happen.
If they've got valuable pieces
of application functionality that are
already exist in a written
in C or C plus
plus shouldn't make them have
to rewrite that in JavaScript
just to get it to
be something that can be
used in a web browser.
So that's just one example
of how web assembly adds
to the, the, the tool
kit that developers have to
build ever more impressive web
applications. It seems like developers
who are struggling to make
impressive web applications over the
last 15 years or so.
We used plugins. We use
direct decks and flash and
server Lite and Java applets.
But the day of the
plug of the day for
plugins is over now with
evergreen browsers and in powerful
things like web assembly in,
I don't need a plugin
for any of that stuff,
do I? That's right. That's
right. And in fact, we
haven't talked about that far
back into the history of
browser, but yes, you know,
in the early days when
developers needed to do something
that browser just couldn't do,
we allowed native plugins to
extend the browser and let
them do that. And that
created opportunity, but it also
created a number of issues,
not the least of which
being security problems and that
sort of thing. So we
have now happily advanced to
the point where we have
enough technology in the web
platform, proper that we no
longer need to support plugins
and allow native code to
be directly executed from within
the browser. And in fact,
when Firefox, we have deprecated
the plugin interface, so that
with one exception, we don't
anticipate allowing plugins to be
run as part of the
browsing experience on the web
and developers who would have
needed that functionality, we believe
can get what they need
using, for example, WebAssembly, And
this means a better experience
for everybody. It means a
better experience for everybody. Yes.
Yeah. This also means that
things that maybe would have
been like, I would never
have thought of, like, I
know what portable C plus
plus is, and I've written
portable C plus plus, but
I don't think of it
as really portable, like suddenly
the web became a target
for my C plus plus
code That's right. And in
fact, the web became a
target for your C plus
plus code. And so you
can think about it from
a programming language perspective, the
web is now a target
of many programming languages, and
that will grow over time,
but that also has implications
for tool chains. So just
like the web is now
a target for your C
plus plus code. If you're
a game developer using unity
that for example, then the
web is a target there
too. So tool chains like
game developer, tool chains for
me, unity and Epic games
can actually target the web
as a platform and other
tool chains in particular, thanks
to WebAssembly can target the
web as well. So it's
a, it's a developer and
a, a tool chain target.
Now, One of the buzz
words that I hear a
lot is transpiling versus compiling.
Do you make the distinction
the way some people do
Me? Well, there I don't.
And there are people that
make the distinction between transpiling
and, and compiling in the
sense that they're talking about
mapping from, you know, one
language domain to another, but
from the perspective of web
assembly, it's, it's a compiling
process that gets the, the,
the ultimately produces the binary
representation. That's that's downloaded and
run in the browser. Okay.
So then if I understand
correctly, then transpiling kind of
more generally would be going
from one source code to
another. That has a similar
level of abstraction. So like
from coffee script to JavaScript
would be a step, but
compiling would be going kind
of downstream. So C plus
plus to WebAssembly is not
from one level of obstruction
to another. So it's clearly
a compilation step Yeah. From
higher levels of extraction to
lower, as opposed to approximately
at the same level of
abstraction. So this almost makes
me feel like, well, we've
had like, you know, iPhones
and app stores and you
know, this, this kind of
like the, the, both the
good thing about app stores
and the plague of the
app store, the web is
going to become an app
store. I can like a
play a AAA game theoretically
in the browser and it
should work just well That's
right. And we're starting to
see that. In fact, you
know, a lot of people
play games on the web.
They do it in their
web browser or on Facebook
and where those games used
to have to be built,
targeting plugins. They can now
be built to, to target
the web. And then we're
seeing that directly. And that's
actually a good thing. So
an increasing number of web
based entertainment experiences can be
built directly, entirely in web
technologies. And we're seeing that
happen pretty substantially with the
web, with HTML five, with
ASM dot JS, and as
we're rolling out web assembly,
we'll see more and more
that over the course of
this calendar year as, as
WebAssembly gets out in volume.
So as, as a developer,
how should I think about
it? Is it, is it
done? Is it rolling out,
like you said, as it's
coming out there and should
I tell my nontechnical spouse
about it? Or should I
just tell her to look
at this cool webpage, Hey,
there's several questions pack there
together. So it is rolling
out what we've shipped. We
tend to think of as
sort of the minimum viable
product from a WebAssembly perspective.
So we have all of
the pieces in place to
make it something that browser
vendors can comfortably deploy that
people can developers can use,
especially developers who may already
have been using ASM dot
JS. And so it's this
critical mass is there in
the browsers and beginning to
ship and, you know, sort
of percolate onto end user
machines. As those browsers roll
out there is more to
come. And so we're not
done by any means. There
are a number of things
coming in terms of enhancements
that will make web assembly,
you know, a more capable
environment in which people can
deploy applications. And then also
just to improve web assembly
itself. So this is just
the beginning of an ongoing
series of enhancements that we'll
make over time to increase
the capabilities that we give
developers through. WebAssembly That makes
sense. So then in the
future, then you would see,
you know, your developer tools
kind of be more kind
of first-class source level, as
opposed to like debugging assembly
in the browser. That's right.
And so they sort of
categorically, there are a number
of areas of activities that
we're seeing happen. Now. One
is the turning the attention
of the teams to debugging
and integration with tools, better
ways of, of doing, you
know, the traditional look at
the source, set a break
point step through the code,
see what's going on. And
so improving and enriching the
debugging experience and integrating it
with the developer tools they
already are using built into
the browser or otherwise. And
so that's definitely an area
of activity supporting other programming
languages is another one. One
of the things that WebAssembly
does not yet do in
its current form is handle
languages that have built in
garbage collection like Java. And
so there's work to be
done to add support for
garbage collection as part of
language support in WebAssembly so
that we can ultimately let
people take Java code for
example, and compile it down
to web assembly and run
it in the browser. And
then there, there are a
number of ways you don't,
it's not an all or
nothing thing. You don't have
to abandon JavaScript and build
everything in your web application
and WebAssembly, you can mix
and match. And so over
time, we want to create
a wider range of capabilities
so that there are a
number of mechanisms for people
to build applications that represent
some combination of WebAssembly and
some of JavaScript, maybe a
lot of web assembly and
a little JavaScript, or a
lot of JavaScript and a
little web assembly, and provide
good interfaces between the two.
So the WebAssembly code can
directly access the Dom, or
you can easily call back
and forth between JavaScript code
and WebAssembly code. And so
supporting a richer collection of
application architectures as a combination
of JavaScript, and WebAssembly is
also part of the ongoing
work in the future roadmap
That you bro, you, and
there was a lot in
that answer. And I appreciate
that unpacking. One of them
that I think is significant
and that helps us all,
all of us that are
listening to your story, get
an understanding about how we
should think about WebAssembly you're
separating, there's JavaScript, the JavaScript
we know in love, there's
the Dom. And then there
is WebAssembly and they are
individual actors in this larger
thing. We shouldn't conflate JavaScript
and WebAssembly and moving between
them. You know, it's a
kind of a, the word
we would use as the
bird I've used historically is
thunking T H U N
K, but, you know, moving
from one layer to another,
translating from one layer to
another calling from managed code
into unmanaged code. And then
you also mentioned the idea
of the garbage collector. If
I were to take C-sharp
and compile it to WebAssembly
C sharp idiomatically makes assumptions
about there being a garbage
collector available. Do I compile
that and bring it along,
or do I have the
target language understand that? So
I'm hearing that you're thinking
about all those things to
make it better for anyone
to make weapons That's correct.
Yeah. I think back to
the earlier statement about putting
more powerful tools in the
developer's toolbox that that fits
that, that philosophy, right? So
we want to give them
what web assembly can do,
its advantages and how it
can integrate with the tool
chains and other things, and
then set that in alongside
JavaScript and all of the
other techniques that they're using
today to give them a
wider range of options to
build, you know, more ambitious
or more expressive, other kinds
of experiences and applications on
the web. So it's not
an either or kind of
thing. It's a, here's another
power tool, you know, take
a look and let us
know what you think. Nice.
And you're working with like
partners. I've heard like Autodesk
and unity and Epic. Is
there something big companies and
big games going on that
we're going to see? Are
we going to be able
to go and play a
first-class game in the browser
soon? Yes. Well, you can,
you can play some pretty
impressive games in the browser.
Now, we, we did a
number of demos in collaboration
with some of those partners.
GDC was earlier in the
year and we showcased a
number in there as part
of our release of support
for WebAssembly and Firefox 52,
we provided a demo built
by our forensic play canvas.
Who'd built some great games
that are already available on
the web to really show
you what a game engine
class, AAA game experience looks
like entirely rendered in web
GL. And obviously that's amenable
to use with, with WebAssembly.
Right. Well, very cool. And
I know that people can
go to webassembly.org/demo and they
can see things like a
tank's demo, which is a
tutorial game that they exported
into WebAssembly where WebAssembly is
just the target that's right.
Yeah. Just to take part
of taking existing code and,
and compiling it down to
WebAssembly using the tool chain
and then packaging it up
and deploying it with the
larger web application in the
browser. One of the things
that really helped me understand
WebAssembly and I'll put this
in the show notes and
I would encourage everyone who's
listening to check it out
as well. Is one of
your team members, Lynn Clark,
she's one of the engineers
working on this, did a
series of cartoons explaining kind
of an intro to web
assembly. And I found that
to be very helpful. All
of her, her posts at
she, she has a website
called code cartoons where she
explains these things just in
plain English. But with an
understanding that engineers are looking
at them, she looks at
the historical context of how
jitters came to be and
how they improve things for,
for us and how we
got to this point. Yeah.
That's, I'm glad you found
that useful. We've been pretty
impressed with Lynn's work. We
posted on our hacks blog
at Mozilla and on her
website and you're right. It's
a series of posts that
are all connected together. So
it's easy to sort of
read them all and traverse
them to explain some of
the motivations behind WebAssembly, how
it works, the way it
does. And then also talk
a little bit about what's
coming in the future. So
I really good sort of
single set of articles to
read all in one place
to give you that full
perspective, but yeah, I'm glad
you like that. And so,
as I understood, yeah, that's
great. I will, I watch
you send Lynn kudos on
a, on Twitter. So as
of February, that MVP, that
minimum viable product is kind
of is complete. And the,
and Mozilla, you're the first
prouder at the, as the
time of this talk to,
to come out with a,
an implementation of that MVP,
is that correct? We deployed
at first, in Firefox 52
in early March, Google subsequently
shipped it in, in Chrome.
So yeah, we were the
first to actually put it
in a released product and,
and Google followed shortly thereafter.
And we know from the
work with our other partners
that it's coming in other
browsers as well, Is, is
this new kind of flavor
of browser Wars? It doesn't
feel like browser Wars, like
it was in the nineties.
It actually feels like it
makes it better for everybody.
It doesn't mean like, I
felt like it was very
competitive back in the day,
but now not so much.
Well, it is interesting. It's
it's still, you know, there
are elements of competitiveness, but,
but I think we've, this
is another, in a number
of technologies where we've seen
the browser vendors work together
to dif to define, build
and deploy, and then support
technologies that just make the
web better. So web assembly
is a good example. Web
GL is a good example.
We see this in a
number of places. We did,
you know, the web game
stack work that we've alluded
to all good examples of
where we at Mozilla obviously
know that this technology is
great and we want it
in our browser, but we
know that it's important that
it be in all of
the browser. So everyone have
it at their fingertips. And
the other browser vendors are
great to work with and
making that happen. That's cool
that that's happening. And it
also feels like because everything's
being done in the open,
like more than ever before,
and people aren't trying to
lock each other into close
technologies, you're seeing tool chain
libraries for things like web
assembly. Like there's one called
binary in the word binary
N that, you know, it's
a series, it's a tool
chain, it's a library for
C plus plus that helps
you make your, your wisdom
easier. And it seems like
that's just the start of
a whole series of toolkits.
And at some point I'll
just open up, I don't
know, visual studio or whatever,
and say, Oh, target the
web and it'll just work.
Right, Right. That's right. And
you know, we've built, so
those two chains in script
and as part of the
tool chain for WebAssembly using
LLVM. So there's a lot
of leveraging large bodies of
work that already exists for,
for programming languages and compiling
in general, to make it
easy to bring those languages
in that technology. Yeah. I'm
looking forward to this. I'm
wonder though how it will
make, like how the web
will become the great app
store. I don't know, I
guess, will I be able
to pay people for access
to these things? I guess
I just log in. It's
just a website, isn't it.
And so frictionless discovery and
easy access is all part
of the, what makes the
web great. There are ways
and work happening around things
like payments on the web.
So standards, work, and others
there. I think you can
expect those things to all
come and get added to
the, to the picture later.
But for now the, the
idea is to put all
these experiences on the web
and make them part of
what you do today to
discover and visit and use
the websites. And even with
new things coming like web
VR, the same model apply.
Yeah. And, and those, those,
those things are all coming
together. If you think about
wallets and mobile payments and
web assembly, and then you
brought up web VR, each
of these things is kind
of converging into the final
of the dream of the
open web to be able
to do pretty much anything
you want. We were now
getting to the point where
people Install their operating system,
and then they install their
browser and they're pretty much
done. Yeah, that's right. And
the intent is to make
that satisfying experience for developers
too. So when they think
about building something interesting and
putting it in the hands
of users, they think about
the web as the foremost
platform where they can most
easily make that happen. So
if I go and download
Firefox 52 or up is
WebAssembly only a desktop thing,
or do you see this
on the mobile devices? So
we see WebAssembly as a,
as a mobile feature as
well. I mean the same
capabilities. And in fact, you
know, the, the hardware that
you and I use, many
people uses their mobile devices.
A multi-core very powerful GPU
accelerated platform. And there's absolutely
no reason why you wouldn't
want the benefits of web
assembly in the browser on
your mobile device. And so
that's very much part of
the work that's happening too.
And that kind of brings
it all the way back
around to the beginning where
we think about how far
we've come, that now we
have these quad processor pocket
supercomputers that can not only
have one operating system, but
another one on top of
it in the form of,
of WebAssembly that I could
target. Yeah. And from the
perspective of the web, there
really is a diminishing amount
of difference between the capabilities
of platforms that we think
of as mobile and platforms
that we think is fixed,
not mobile. And we tend
to worry more these days
about whether it's plugged into
the wall or not from
a power consumption perspective or
what the network performance is
like than we do worrying
about the capabilities of the
underlying CPS or, or, you
know, whether they can display
graphics or not. So it's
a, yeah, which is actually,
it's a, it's an extreme
version of the, the whole
browser sniffing versus a feature
detection. Really. I don't care
what I'm on. I just
want to know how big
the screen is and whether
it's plugged in, right. That's
right. And let me get
at my content or my
game or my virtual world
or whatever, wherever I happen
to be fantastic. Well, thank
you so much, David Brian,
for talking to us today
about WebAssembly and helping me
get my brain around how
I should think about what's
here and what's coming in.
Thanks, Scott, appreciate the opportunity.
We like having the, the
chance to help people understand
more comprehensively Lakeland, cartoon, where
we are and what we're
working on. And it's been
great answering your questions and
going through where we are
today with WebAssembly. Thanks for
the time. Very cool. I'm
going to put all of
this in the show notes.
You can check out hacks.mozilla.org
and take a look at
some of those great blog
posts that explain this. You
can go and download Firefox
and experience it for yourself
as well as visiting webassembly.org
and looking at GitHub for
the details about how the
code works. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week. .